Last night Hillary and I were facing the eternal question every couple faces
in the evening: "What are we going to eat tonight?"

  
After a bit of debate, we decided on some frozen tortellini that we had lying
around - it had served us well when we made the first half of the package.
However, tortellini alone does not a dinner make. At least not a very complete
one. The go to for pasta-related side dishes for us is typically garlic bread.
Hillary makes a mean garlic bread with some mozzarella and adobo as well as
other things that don't immediately come to mind.

Lacking proper bread and mozzarella (and with no one wanting to go to the
store) Hillary set her sights on the only bread product available - some
tortillas left from making quesadillas a previous evening. With the concept of
garlicy tortilla goodness in mind, my lady went to google and found a few
recipes that fit the bill. One involving butter and garlic cloves, another
involving oil and garlic salt.

I guess she found both lacking, so what follows is hybrid she created, single
handedly saving dinner:

  
**Garlic Tortilla Bread**   

  * 3 tortillas, cut in quarters
  * about 1/4 stick butter
  * one clove garlic, minced
  * salt and pepper
  * olive oil
  * parmesan cheese
Instructions: Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Melt butter in a bowl. Add all
ingredients that are not tortilla or cheese into melted butter (just a
reasonable amount of the olive oil). Spread this mixture on top of tortilla
quarters, placed on some sort of baking sheet. Bake somewhere around 5 minutes
or until the pieces look like they are crisping up a bit (our time was closer
to 3 minutes I think). Then flip tortillas and put parmesan cheese on the
upward side - bake another 3-5 minutes until looking crispy.

  
The resulting pieces are quite good - combining a bit of chip crispiness with
a bit of bready give and a garlic bread like flavor. Hillary thought next time
we should substitute garlic salt for the clove, since in the flipping we lost
a lot of garlic. What a lady - and she says she has no inclination toward
cooking!

  
Last night we also discussed the idea for a machine called the
complain-o-tron, which would listen to complaints and reply "Tough noogies."
While not practical, it has a certain elegance to it. It gave me the idea for
a website with a single form for inputting your complaint - and then one (or
maybe more!) responses. The interesting part would actually be storing the
complaints (anonymously, naturally) and then providing some fun statistics
about them, like "80% of complaints contained the word 'Buns'". It would be a
nice oppurtunity to work on some text parsing scripts.

The whole idea might be a little too close to [a certain achewood
comic](http://achewood.com/index.php?date=07182005). We'll see.

