I've been taking a bit of a break from working on this site because I've been
working on a basic python version of
[Othello/Reversi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reversi). I think I've been
doing well, and sharpening up my skills to boot. I plan on making it open
source/available pretty soon through svn even though it's a ways from being
full featured. I would really like to find a way to get a bunch of people to
look at it and give me some feedback. I can read all day long about the right
things to do with code, but it's harder to pick out the things that I'm doing
wrong - especially with something like games programming. However, figuring
out the svn settings to make only what I want public is not the sort of thing
I'm interested in doing right this moment, but soon!

  
It has been quite a while since I worked on some code that was not somehow
website related - and it's nice. A lot less time is spent tweaking random
little things and much more is spent plugging away at logic. Granted, I
haven't gotten very far into the graphics part, but so far, mostly logic.
Aside from some ASCII representations of the board, I plan on doing something
with curses, and eventually if I feel ambitious, maybe pygame. Othello is
appealing because I've always liked the game, and have tried to implement it
before in python, and c++ or java - I forget which. I guess it really depends
on whether I tried in highschool or college. Either way, the fact that I've
never finished the project makes it that much more appealing to me, and I
think the possibility of developing different grahical frontends and possibly
game playing AI offers good opportunity to work on my chops.

  
So anyway - Hopefully svn access soon so I can get some feedback.

