I've never been the biggest fan of Facebook. I have an account, and I check in
on it occasionally, but it has never really rubbed me the right way. Why that
was the case wasn't clear to me until recently.

  
Facebook reminds me of AOL. When internet penetration was really ramping up,
but before broadband was widely available, AOL was the way that almost
everyone got online. AOL wasn't (isn't?) just internet access, it was an
entire monolithic internet user experience. For most people, AOL email, AOL
chatrooms, AOL instant messaging and AOL content _was_ the internet, and the
AOL internet was not very compatible with the rest of the internet. This is
what Facebook reminds me of.

  
Facebook seems to be aiming for the same all encompassing online experience.
Facebook can feasibly replace your email, twitter, instant messager, blog,
photo sharing service and any online games you might play. There have also
been changes recently to try and make facebook your source for news. I suppose
all of this is convenient for the user, but I don't like having my entire
online presence tied up with one company. Not only does it give them a lot of
power, but it nudges you into using whatever implementation of a given
technology they are pushing, with no mind to quality. I don't mind facebook
keeping track of my friends comings and goings, but when it comes to
disseminating information, I prefer twitter. I'd rather maintain my own blog
and use a third party instant messaging client because while those service are
on facebook, other services do them better.

  
When I look at the online presences of prominent technology people, they also
seem to be spread across different services, picking and choosing the ones
that they like, and unlike facebook, I can still check them out without
strapping into the service they use. While part of the reason people are so
locked into facebook is the lower technological bar for entry, I think as
people become more savvy and other services become easier, facebook will start
to lose some traction.

  
Now, AOL is still around, but in an extremely hobbled form. Will the same
thing happen to facebook? It doesn't seem super likely, but at the peak of
AOL, it didn't seem very likely they were going very far either. AOL had the
misfortune of being struck down by broadband, and maybe facebook will have
it's own broadband come and strike it down. Perhaps everyone will just leave.
Tough to say.

