I was reading [an article](http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/4chans_chris_p
oole_facebook_google_are_doing_it_wr.php) discussing some comments made my
moot - the guy who created 4chan and canv.as. He has some pretty strong
feelings about anonymity and how it effects the way we interact with each
other online. I think there is definitely a place for both identities in the
online world. On this page, I'm obviously not too shy about my identity, but
on other sites I take on a more pseudo-anonymous identity (reddit for
example), as I think most people do.

  
The article got me thinking about how closely our online personas reflect our
actual personalities. Are you as willing to speak out when going by your real
name as you are when going under a pseudonym? I think I'm a bit more careful
when using my real name, but for me, my pseudonym also has a bit of a
reputation to maintain. To me, my pseudonym is a separate part of my identity,
but still definitely "me". As a general rule, I try not to be a dick
regardless of how personally liable I am for my statements, but I can see how
it can be appealing to let loose completely in online form. When you are
anonymous, there is almost no chance of suffering interpersonal consequences
for your actions.

  
The article also reminded me of a conversation I had with my girlfriend a few
days ago. She is still friends on facebook with an RA that she had our
freshman year of college. He now lives in the midwest and is married to a girl
he met through an online forum. The story goes that they were friends online,
dated online for several years, and when college was over, he moved out there
and married her. They had only met in person one time before they moved in
together. I imagine that to many people, this sounds insane. How could you get
along with someone that you had only met "for real" one time? It doesn't make
a whole lot of sense. But what if you had put enough of yourself online that
your interactions there were "for real"? I don't think that I've ever made a
friend online, but I also don't think of my online self as my whole self. If
you truly present your whole self, as I imagine the guy in our story does,
then he wasn't moving in with someone he barely knew, he was moving in with
someone he'd known (and dated) for years. It still seems a bit strange to me,
but as we spend more time online and as younger people grow up not knowing a
world without an online component, I think it will become more and more
common.

